# NetRNApan
## Deciphering RNA modification and post-transcriptional regulation by deep learning framework 

RNA modification, which is evolutionarily conserved, is crucial for modulating various biological functions and disease pathogenesis. High resolution transcriptome-wide mapping of RNA modifications has facilitated both data resources and computational prediction of RNA modification. While these prediction algorithms are promising, they are limited in interpretability or generalizability, or the capacity for discovering novel post-transcriptional regulations. Here, we present NetRNApan, a deep learning framework for RNA modification site prediction, motif discovery and trans-regulatory factor identification. Using m5U profiles generated by FICC-seq and miCLIP-seq technologies as cases, we demonstrated the accuracy of NetRNApan with more efficient and interpretive feature representations. Decoding the informative characteristics detected by NetRNApan uncovered five representative clusters with consensus motifs that may be essential for m5U modification. Furthermore, NetRNApan revealed interesting trans-regulatory factors and provided a protein-binding perspective for investigating the function of RNA modifications. Specifically, we discovered 21 potential functional RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) whose binding sites were significantly linked to the extracted top-scoring motifs. Two examples are ANKHD1 and RBM4 with potential regulatory function of RNA modifications. Further analyses of identified RBPs revealed new insights into post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of m5U, such as gene expression, RNA splicing, and RNA transport. NetRNApan and the findings will be helpful for accurate and high-throughput detection of RNA modification sites in the study of mRNA regulation. NetRNApan is freely available at https://github.com/bsml320/NetRNApan.
